what's up guys Jimbo here again with
refinish Network and today I am going to
be talking about polishing and covering
a bit of the theory behind what
polishing actually accomplishes so we're
gonna be looking at this scratch right
here on this hood and a general rule
when polishing out a scratch is if you
can catch it with your fingernail the
odds are it's probably too deep to sand
out for a scratch to come out it has to
be in the clear coat so to put things in
perspective we'll have a look at this
diagram here where it shows that you'd
have your primary your base coat and
your clear coat and you can see where
the scratch is and it would be a little
mark out of your clear coat so what
would happen is you would be sanding
down that spot flat and you would end up
with this so you can see the scratch
would be now standard flat however you
have a bit less clear coat on now now it
generally isn't a big issue to remove
clear coat when you're taking a scratch
off but again if it's too deep then
you're gonna have significantly less UV
hold out in that area so it might be a
bit more prone to fading so here's a
look at taking the scratch out using
some 1500 grit paper now you can use
anywhere from 1,200 to 2,000 grit and
there's some trade-offs depending on
what you're doing but if you use
something like 1200 it's going to leave
some coarse or scratches which will be
more difficult to remove with the
compound in the next step so when you're
done sanding you're left with a hazy
kind of look dull area and that is
completely normal and we're going to
take care of that once we start
polishing so I'm using the 3m polishing
system here and there's several
different ones to choose from but most
better ones are going to be at least two
to three steps and what you're doing is
you're gradually refining the scratch to
a lighter and lighter scratch so say we
we've started off with a 1500 scratch
and you start polishing I give you just
some crazy numbers I don't know exactly
what the grits would be but let's just
say this step here is going to be
somewhere between 3500 and 4000 scratch
only get to the next step it'll be
between 5,000 and 6,000
and the next step will be to 7000-8000
so you're gradually refining that
scratch to a smaller and smaller scratch
until you're left with nothing but a
perfect shine now I'm using a wool pod
for my first cut you can use a wool or a
foam pad it doesn't really matter the
wool runs a little bit cooler and it's a
little bit more aggressive so the
scratchy leaves are a little bit heavier
but it's just my personal preference
either way it doesn't really matter so
I'd be using a heavy compound for my
first cut it could be either a rubbing
compound or an extra cutting cream they
might be labeled but there'd be a
compound that's gonna leave heavier
scratches and when you're done this step
you shouldn't be able to see any more of
that haze so if you kind of get down
looking at a few different angles and
make sure you don't see that haze at all
anymore and then you should be ready to
move on to the next step
at this point you're finish it should
kind of that shine back but it's gonna
have some heavier scratches that you can
still see
so the second step typically would be a
swirl mark remover and with 3m it's a
black foam pad and this is going to be
just a lighter compound and the other
one so this will work to take out the
heavier scratches from what we just did
with the white one so if we left it the
scratches the way they were and just
drove it this way you'd have the heavier
scratches in it but you'd also probably
see a lot of swirl marks kind of
hologram looks to it and this step you
should take somewhere between three to
four minutes to do you just kind of keep
going over it until all those heavier
scratches have completely disappeared so
once you think you're done wipe it down
have a look make sure that it's looking
pretty well near-perfect before you move
on to the final step so the final step
with 3m is the ultra FINA on the blue
pad and it's actually used wet so you
kind of flick a little bit of water onto
it as well as you're doing it and this
just works to remove any swirl marks
that are left over now if you're on a
budget or if it's a vehicle that isn't
such a dark finish like you could get
away with just stopping after the swirl
mark remover assuming it was on a
lighter finish most people wouldn't
notice much difference but when it comes
to a black black really shows everything
so this is where you really want to make
sure we're doing the final step and
that's going to give you that showroom
finish when you're done
that's it for today guys thanks for
watching and don't forget to click like
and leave me a comment and don't forget
to check out my other polishing videos
including this black car I have a video
that I've done with polishing this car
complete so if you want to see the
entire process then check that one out
later
you